JS BASICS 
===========
- How does the web work?
    HTTP:// = Hyper Text Transfer Protocol
    —> REST: Most popular HTTP format
    —> JSON: Preferred format for sending data and forth (JavaScript Object Notation)

C reate —   Post 
R ead —     Get
U pdate —   Put
D elete —   Delete

## Script Tags 
- Are used to run your code file on a web page. 
- Done either on the same server as your HTML or on a host site/outside server.
        syntax: <script> src = “_____.js” </script>    

## Data Types
- Boolean
- Null 
    + null is not undefined
- Undefined 
    + a way to signify there is no value assigned yet, but there could be later
        - for example, if a value is not yet available as in a survey question not yet answered, data not yet received or input
        - as seen in: var myVar; or: myVar = undefined;
- String
    + as seen in: var myString = “7”;
               var myInt = parseInt(myString, 10);
    + would return the numerical value 7 instead of the value-less “7"
- Number // only one type of number in JavaScript
- {Object};
- [Array] 
    + a list, a set of elements — can be multiple data types
- Function
    single "=" indicates assignment
    "==" or "===" indicates comparison

Functions:
- Used to save and reuse/repeat code, by using Parameters (outside data being used as an argument in the function). 
    Function myFunction() {
        console.log(‘hello!’); 
    };

    myFunction(); //calls myFunction. 

FUNCTION EXPRESSION                     vs                     FUNCTION DECLARATION:

var sayName = function(){               function sayName(){
    alert(‘Fred’);                          alert(‘Fred’);
}                                       }
  
  … call … invoke … run

    + When you declare a function, you announce its (parameters).
    + When you call a function, you specify (arguments). 
    + Indexes matter in (parameters). ValueType must align. 
    + Function declaration is the safer pattern to start with. Less unknown bugs occur in code when using this method. 
    + When the function is returned, the function is exited and nothing else within the original function is executed. 

Returning Functions from a Function…
function shoeMachineMaker(color) {
    return function(){
        return color + ‘ ‘ + ‘shoe’;
    }
};

greenShoeMaker = shoeMachineMaker(‘green’); // returns the string ‘green shoe’ 

Scope — The contact in which values and expressions are “visible.” Global scope is “visible” to all of your code. There is a hierarchy. Child scope can have access to parent scopes, but not vice versa. 
        We’re in here but they’re out there. We know what in here **and** out there looks like. They only know what out there looks like.
    + Rules of scope: “Look up, never down”
    + Lexical Scope:
            - Local variables take priority within a function. 
            - Parent variable vs. child variable all over again
            var lunch = ‘pizza’;
      function myLunch() {
          var lunch = ‘filet mignon’;
          function babyLunch() {
              return lunch;
          }
      };
      babyLunch; // returns ‘filet mignon’
    + Using “Let”:
            - Only valid variable assignment method when used within a parent function / aka: must be inside of curly braces to be valid. 
            - Does not apply to variable callbacks beyond its own lexical scope. 
            - Vastly more temporary method for assigning value than var ___ = ___;
            if (true) {
                let num = 12;
            };
            num = undefined;
            for (let i=0; i<11; i++) {
                     // i is only defined for code inside of { this loop } 
            };          


### Ternary Operator  
- Triggered by the '?'
- {CONDITIONS} ? {VALID STATEMENT} : {INVALID STATEMENT};

For example…
    var str = “Hello”;
        BEFORE:                         AFTER:
        if (str.length>3) {             var newStr = str.length>3 ? 88:99;
            newStr = 88;
        } else {
            newStr = 99;
        }


###############
### CLASSES ###
###############
- Using classes as a construct to help us build objects:
    + class Music{} — creates a new mold for the class of Music, multiple objects anticipated to fill those curly braces (using keyword ‘class’).
    + var pop = new Music() — adds a Pop object as a new object into the class Music (using keyword ‘new’).
    + constructor(album, artist, year){} — creates the template, defines arguments necessary to build objects within this class (using keyword ‘constructor’).
    + this.album = album; — crucial syntax in building and referencing components of your class. Allows for long term storage and updates (using keyword ‘this.’). 

1- Always start by defining your variable, your object, your class — whatever you are filling with results.
2- Use keywords to point to your code and manipulate context

## Class Reference
class Music {} — creates a new mold for the class of Music, multiple objects anticipated to fill those curly braces
var pop = new Music () — adds a Pop object as a new object into the class Music. 

###############
### NESTING ###
###############

## Accessing Nested Objects in JSON
For example…

var myStorage = {
  "car": {
    "inside": {
      "glove box": "maps",
      "passenger seat": "crumbs"
     },
    "outside": {
      "trunk": "jack"
    }
  }
};

var whatsOutside = myStorage.car.outside;
var gloveBoxContents = myStorage.car.inside["glove box”];

#####################
### DESTRUCTURING ###
#####################
- Used to change an unnatttractive object formation to a more readable line of code
var name = employee.first_name;        … becomes …          var {first_name} = employee;
                                                            let {first_name} = employee;
- It is possible to use destructuring to refer to a value within parameters of another function 
    + Used often as shorthand in React
    function aPerson({name, friends, race}, greeting, age){ } 

## indexOf
- Gets the index of a given item
    array.indexOf(7) -> Returns the index of the first time it found 7

- Works with strings, numbers, booleans
    array.indexOf(22)
    array.indexOf("twenty two")
    array.indexOf(false)
    returns -1 if no match found

    array.indexOf(18) -> Returns -1 because 18 is not in the array can start later

    array.indexOf(10, 3) -> Returns the index of 10, but only starts looking at index 3.

## split
- Breaks a string based on a character
    "hello, my, name, is, Jeremy".split(',')

- Hard coded strings or variables
    str.split(',')

- Returns an array with each chunk as a new item
    var splitArr = "hello, my, name, is, Jeremy".split(',')
    splitArr === ["hello", " my", " name", " is", " Jeremy"]

####################
### HIGHER ORDER ###
####################

- A higher order function is a like a mastermind with smaller functions that act as minions or workers.
- A higher order function gets and uses other functions to perform parts.

## forEach
- Loops over all items in an array
    array.forEach(...)

- Uses a callback function
    array.forEach(function(){})
    array.forEach(()=>{})

- Gives the callback function each item 1 at a time
    array.forEach( function( item ) { } )
    array.forEach( ( item ) => { } )

- Also gives the index, and the original array
    array.forEach( function( item, index, arr) { } )
    array.forEach( ( item, index, arr) => { } )

- Must use the arr parameter to change the original array
    array.forEach( function( item, index, arr) { arr[index] = 7 } )
    array.forEach( ( item, index, arr) => arr[index] = 7 )

## map
- Works just like a forEach function
    array.map( function( item, index, arr) { } )
    array.map( ( item, index, arr) => { } )

- The callback is used to change/alter/re-map the item
    array.map( function(item){ return item + ", eh"})
    array.map( function(item){ return item + 27})
    array.map( function(item){ if(item.isDemoted){ item.isAdmin = false; } if(item.isDavidBlaine){ item.lovesCheezits = true; } 
    return item; })
 
- Anything returned by the callback function is added to a new array
    var array = [1, 2, 4, 10]
    var mapResult = array.map( function( item ) { return item + 10} )
    var mapResult = array.map( ( item ) => item + 10 )
    mapResult === [ 11, 12, 14, 20]
    array === [1, 2, 4, 10]

## filter
- Works just like a forEach function
    array.filter( function( item, index, arr) { } )
    array.filter( ( item, index, arr) => { } )

- The callback is used to check if the item goes into the new array
    array.filter( function(item){ return item > 21}) array.filter( (item) => item > 21 )
    array.filter( function(item){ return item.isAdmin } ) array.filter( (item) => item.isAdmin )

- Return truthy = included. return falsy = excluded.
    var array = [1, 2, 4, 10, 11]
    var filterResult = array.filter( function( item ) { return item % 2 === 0 } )
    var filterResult = array.filter( ( item ) => item % 2 === 0 )
    filterResult === [ 2, 4, 10]
    array === [1, 2, 4, 10, 11]

## reduce
- Works similar to a forEach function
- Adds a new prev parameter in the front
    array.reduce( function( prev, item, index, arr) { } )
    array.reduce( ( prev, item, index, arr) => { } )

- Adds a starting value after the function
    array.reduce( function( prev, item, index, arr) { }, startingValue )
    array.reduce( ( prev, item, index, arr) => { }, startingValue )

- Prev is whatever value the previous invocation returned
    array.reduce( function( prev, item, index, arr) { return prev + next }, 0 )
    array.reduce( ( prev, item, index, arr) => prev + next, 0 )

- Reduce is great for running totals
    var array = [1, 2, 4, 10, 11]
    var reduceResult = array.reduce( function( prev, item ) { return prev + item }, 0 )
    var reduceResult = array.reduce( ( prev, item ) => prev + item, 0 )
    reduceResult === 28
    array === [1, 2, 4, 10, 11]
